hi welcome back so now I'm interested in
how you as a tablet professional
actually start exploring a dataset yeah
that's a great question and the fun
thing about tableau is that there are a
million and one ways to explore data you
can start with a question that you have
and then try to answer that question in
the data or you can start just by
looking at the dimensions and measures
that you have and dragging those out
onto the canvas and changing things
around and changing the aggregation and
starting to explore and everyone has a
different process you can invent your
own process I often invent new processes
but one of the first things that I
usually do is I take a look at the data
that I'm working with because often it
wasn't data that i personally collected
in this case I've brought a data set
that the UN collected on refugee data so
we're looking at asylum seekers where
they came from where they ended up when
they when they ended up in those
countries and I've already taken a step
to clean up the data often that's a
necessary step before you start
visualizing it and in this case it was
really easy i just check this checkbox
to clean it with our data interpreter
and that took away a few rows in the
beginning that work related to the rest
of the data set so then i'm going to
open up a sheet and i'm going to start
asking questions so one of the things i
want to know is what how many people are
in this data set right how many people
are we talking about here so i'm going
to drag this over onto the canvas and i
can see that we're talking about a bit
over eight million asylum-seekers
ok so that's interesting now I want to
know where did these people come from
and so i'm going to drag their origin
onto the columns
now this is a little bit difficult for
me to see it would be helpful if i could
rotate it so i'm going to swap the axes
here and then I'm going to sort the data
and now I can start to see a story and I
can start to see where these
asylum-seekers originated
yeah it's interesting so now that this
point how would you say that use filters
to keep digging into the day
yeah that's a great question so tableau
makes it really easy to narrow down your
data and drill in and understand the
data from different perspectives so in
this case for example I have a date that
might be interesting to explore so i'm
going to show a filter for the date and
then instead of checkboxes I want to
have a single value list and now I can
start to see trends and ask questions
for example the data in 1999 looks
different than the data in 2008 and so
now I can start to say huh what was it
that caused those changes and what can I
learn from this data set right so now
that you know where you know diving
deeper with the the filters and all that
how would you actually start making this
into a dashboard so that you can like
share this interesting stories with
others
yeah so dashboard is a series of parts
that when combined are greater than the
whole right so a number of
visualizations that could be combined to
tell a different story or show you a
different perspective of your data so
here i have a bar chart but this is
geographic data so it might also be
interesting to look at it as a map so
here i have a dimension that shows the
country and i'm going to click on a
little show me section in the corner
here that's going to suggest some
visualizations and here it selected a
map so if I add this map it is now
showing me where asylum-seekers ended up
all of the countries that took in asylum
seekers are represented by a single .
but i also want to know how many
asylum-seekers went to each country so i
might take this number of asylum seekers
and drag this on to color and now we can
start to see where there are some hot
spots so it looks like Germany as a
hotspot and actually all of Europe looks
kind of interesting so i'm going to zoom
in on Europe and now I can start to see
a geographic story emerged now there's
also a time dimension in this data set
that's interesting to explore
and so one of the things that I could do
is I could look at the number of asylum
seekers and then I could look at the
date
ok and see tableau automatically change
that into a line chart for me because
the line is a really good way to explore
dates and now this date actually also
comes with a built-in hierarchy and what
that means is i can i see a plus button
here and that means that i can drill
down further to quarter or two for
example a month and I can start to see
the data in different ways and from
different perspectives
now if I wanted to turn this into a
dashboard I would tap on the new
dashboard icon here and here i have
sheets that are in the corner for me and
I can start dragging those onto my
dashboard and if i hover over them i see
a little thumbnail that helps me know
what I'm looking at
so I'm going to drag that sheet here i'm
going to drag the map out on top and
then i'm going to drag this line chart
to the side now i can't quite see
everything that's going on so i'm going
to change this for fixed size to
automatic and then there are a couple of
things that I want to do here i want to
take away these titles they're not
really helping me right now so we'll
remove those and then we'll remove this
and then I want to one of the other cool
things that you can do with tableau is
that you can use visualization as
filters so that's another really
interesting thing that you can do with
filters so here we have filters for
dates but we can also filter by country
so what i can do is i can click on this
button to use as a filter and then i can
take this filter for date and I can
apply to all of the worksheets using
this data source
ok and then i'm going to do a simple
customization here i'm also going to
float
this i'm going to change it to a
drop-down and then i will resize it will
put it on the map here and i'll take
this away
ok and now we have a visualization and
if i put that into full-screen mode you
have this beautiful view where you can
start to explore data right so now i can
see what's happening in france in $MONTH
2008 vs 2014 for example right and you
can start really digging in and asking
questions and exploring a very rich way
great that's really cool like that
ok so these are dashboards but tableau
also lets you build stories right so
what's the difference between a story
and a dashboard and when would you use
one rather than the other
yeah that's a great question and I like
to think of it as a story has a
narrative and it has a sequence you want
people to understand the information in
a particular order
so with a dashboard it gives you an
overview of what's going on so I think
of it kind of like you know you show up
at the food truck and there's the menu
on the side and you want a picture of
what all the different options are and
maybe you're only interested in
appetizers right now it's really easy
for you to find that appetizer section
and just get something small a story on
the other hand is more like a comic book
you really want to understand the
history and context and understand how
you came to a particular conclusion so
you can also build stories and tableau
so i'm going to click on the new story
button and maybe I want to tell the
story of how I arrived at a particular
insight so here I can take the sheets
and dashboards and combine them into
stories so maybe I start with this sheet
and i add it here and i add a caption
this is the first part of my story and
then I can take another sheet and i can
add a new story . and add a caption
here's where i found this insight and
you can also add dashboards as well
right and in this case we're also going
to move this changes to automatic so i
can see everything that's going on and
when we go to our story we can start by
sharing the first part of the story and
then move people along in sequence so
that they understand your insights